# plockRL: Successes, Failures and Future

# Overview
PlockRL is a reinforcement learning pipeline based on the TD3 algorithm for F1Tenth. 
# Software requirements
 

# Hardware requirements

# Software file structure
plockRL/
├── models/
├── raw_data/
└── transitions/
# Training pipeline
Training data is in csv format, where each line is a lidar scan, appended by speed and steering. full_processing.py takes the name of the dataset, calls subprocesses to parse, compute rewards, create transitions for TD3, and outputs a trained model. The TD3 transitions are described below:

s (state): compressed lidar scan

a (action): steering,speed tuple

r (reward): reward for given action at state

s' (state prime): the state reached by doing action at state s

d (done flag): 1 if minimum lidar scan is less than 0.12, 0 if else.

The following is a description of each subfile and its function:

mirror_data.py
This augments data by reversing the scan list and inverting steering to mimic a mirrored track to double the amount of training data. 

parse_raw_data.py
This puts the raw csv into transition(state,action,reward,state,done) format for TD3. Scans are compressed to a latent representation to save space, and a dummy reward is calculated. the done flag is based on the minimum lidar scan in that row. If any scan is below 0.12, the entire transition is in a "terminated" state. 

recompute_rewards.py
The transition files generated by parse_raw_data.py have a compressed lidar scan, but computing rewards requires the uncompressed scan. This reads the raw file to extract the lidar scan for reward calculation, and copies the corresponding line from the transition file to avoid having to recompute the compressed latent lidar scan. 

train_td3.py
This trains a model using TD3 with the transition file.

All of the file naming and calling are taken care of by full_processing.py

# Use

Collect a csv using the sarsd_data_collect.py script while the car is running. Rename the file to "raw_states_[name]"
Run python3 full_processing.py --name [name]
A model will be output in /models

# Development details
The bulk of the work is developing calculate_reward() in recompute_rewards.py. It is still not perfect. The development process consists of choosing which metrics to penalize and which to optimize and making sure that none conflict or overpower each other. This was tested by writing down possible ranges for every reward and comparing. This was not efficient and needs to be a better method.


# Known Issues
## Software

## Hardware

# FUTURE F1TENTH PARTICIPANTS PLEASE READ
## attempt heuristic method first
There are many classical methods for track navigation, such as gap follow, farthest point follower and wall follow. Attempt these first, they are far easier than reinforcement or imitation learning. However these may struggle if competition track intentionally has gaps or holes. 
## get a better simulator 
The provided F1tenth gym in RViz did not translate well at all to the real car. Much time was spent testing on a real car which is time consuming and tiring. 
## create backups of SD card
Our SD card corrupted itself twice for no reason




# troubleshooting

